---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smart Questions, Good Answers
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-21
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
## My Thoughts on Software Engineering
Personally, I do not know much about software engineering at all. However, even though I have almost no knowledge about software engineering, I am still eager to learn more about it, especially since ICS 314 is such a core class for any computer science major. In engineering, it is possible to be a lot more creative with how you tackle problems since there can be multiple ways to solve them (although some are more efficient than others). Similarly, this also applies to computer science. This is something that I love about coding, since there are technically no "right" answers and you can be as creative as you want with how you solve problems.

## What I Hope to Gain from ICS 314
What interests me the most for software engineering is game development, system management for networks, and data management. Currently I am only majoring in computer science but I am thinking of majoring in a business course with the ICS as a minor. I have always been interested in business and I feel like this is a very strong combination, especially since it relates to the fields of software engineering that I have some interest in. After this semester, I'll plan on finalizing my decision on whether or not to switch my majors or to stick with my current plan.

By taking this course, I am hoping to learn a lot of real-world skills that will help me secure a good job in the future. Some of these skills include networking and building a proper resume. These kinds of skills are extremely helpful since they will always apply for jobs no matter what you decide to pursue in the future. On top of these real-life skills, I also hope to improve as a programmer.  Although I mentioned creativity in the beginning of this essay, I am personally not a creative person and I hope to start working towards being more creative through the WODs, bWODs, and other assignments given out in this class. I also want to be faster and more efficient at coding, which I know is possible due to the conditioning from the athletic software engineering.

## My Final Takes for this Class
The most important thing that I hope to take from this class is finding something that I am truly passionate about. The aspects of software engineering I have mentioned earlier have only interested me, but nothing has truly stood out to me. I hope through this class, I will learn enough about coding to work towards a project that I genuinely care about.


