---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Best Framework to Exist
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-02-25
labels:
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - Coding style
---

## What are Frameworks?
Frameworks are like the hand-holders of website development; they often guide you to building a beautifully designed webpage. Frameworks reduce a LOT of time needed for designing a webpage because it can automatically format things for you, which is a huge relief when working on pages that require a lot of subsections. Since frameworks are also  pre-made, that means they are tested and are therefore very reliable sources to use. This allows for programmers to create neatly designed pages while also minimizing the code needed. As a result, many websites use frameworks such as Semantic UI to make their pages stand out more to viewers.

## Semantic UI and my Experience 
Created by LESS and jQuery, Semantic UI is an example of a framework used by a plethora of web designers. Although it is not the newest framework made, dating back to 2014 when it was officially released, there are a lot of useful features that Semantic UI uses to differentiate it from other frameworks. According to the [Semantic UI website](https://semantic-ui.com/), they claim to have concise html since "Classes use syntax from natural languages like noun/modifier relationships, word order, and plurality to link concepts intuitively." This will be very evident when working with this framework, since the syntax is truly as basic as the founders describe them as.

Personally, Semantic UI is the first framework I have ever used but honestly, I enjoy using it a lot. Obviously, web design is completely new to me and I am struggling when working on exercises and WODs but using Semantic has helped me immensely. Like mentioned in the previous paragraph, the framework is very simplistic and easy to understand, which in my opinion is perfect for beginner web designers like me. Even though it is a bad habit, I am allowed to guess certain syntax for the UI since it is fairly easy to find the right wording for it. Other classmates have also expressed this gratitude towards the simplicity of Semantic UI when questioned by Professor Johnson.

## Final Thoughts
Frameworks are vital to efficient webpage design and will honestly show how efficient a programmer is. Although I am not sure if I will be going into webdesign in the future, I feel like I would stick with Semantic UI if I did. I know I have repeated this many times but the simple syntax alone is enough to make me believe that Semantic UI is a top-tier framework in web development. Maybe until I get exposed to more frameworks will my opinion change but for now, I still stick with this belief.
